on the 1st of december 2019
a man in his 70s fell ill he was
admitted to a hospital
in wuhan unbeknownst to anyone at the
time
by december the 11th up to 200 people
were likely infected with the
coronavirus
three weeks after the first illnesses
emerged
doctors at wuhan central hospital took a
sample from a patient's lungs
they sent it to vision medicals within
48 hours
the company had come up with a short
genetic sequence of the virus
the person who did the analysis
basically sent
a red light flash to the boss of the
company
and the boss says this is serious don't
send the
report out until you're 100 sure and a
few hours later
basically says i'm 100 sure
this is real so the sequence of a
pathogen is really important
because that is what allows people to
figure out how quickly
the pathogen is spreading and to be able
to create
tests for health authorities in other
countries to start detecting
this virus the wuhan health commission
continued to reassure the public that
the outbreak was under control
wuhan's 11 million people were still
going about their lives as normal
spreading the virus around the city and
to the rest of
china at 2 a.m on january the 5th
shanghai virologist jiang yong zhen
obtained the full genetic sequence of
the virus
that day zhang's office wrote to the
national health commission
he wanted to make the sequence public
right away but couldn't
the national health commission had sent
out secret instructions to laboratories
forbidding them from publishing their
results without authorization
and requiring them to destroy or hand
over their samples
it effectively silenced individual
scientists and laboratories from
talking about this outbreak from
revealing information about this virus
and potentially allowing word of it to
leak out to the outside world and alarm
people
the who was now getting critical
information from the media
not from the chinese government the
emergency's chief
mike ryan had a series of meetings with
colleagues to discuss the mounting
crisis
where china can make a huge contribution
to the world right now
is the immediate sharing of genetic
sequences and primers
with other countries but unless they
share that information and knowledge
with others
it will certainly mean that other
countries are going to have to reinvent
the wheel over the coming days
if the government knows about a novel
infection that meets the criteria
within the international health
regulations and a novel coronavirus
by definition meets those criteria
the government is obliged by law
to report that to the world health
organization within 24 hours
the failure to report clearly was a
violation of the international health
regulations
once you report to who it's open to the
world
you start to get travel and trade
restrictions placed upon you
and so i think china's view was that
it wanted to handle this it didn't want
outside interference five days had
passed
since zhang yeong zhen had obtained the
full genetic sequence of the virus
by now chinese state media had announced
it was
a novel coronavirus but zhang was still
prohibited from publishing his data
at that point it seemed absolutely
ridiculous
that we couldn't release the data i said
that we need to release it it's now it's
now we'll never really have we have to
do this
and he said okay so he sends me his
email with the file of the sequence in
my hands were kind of i remember i sort
of shaking i was pressing the button
so then we posted it on biological and i
put a tweet out saying here's the first
gmc i just
felt the weight of pressure just to get
this
out there the release of the sequence
forced beijing's hand the next day
state scientists released the five
sequences they had obtained
several days earlier the international
community was now able to act
on the 13th of january german scientists
published a toolkit for a test
so other countries could check for cases
by allowing the sequence to be published
zhang had defied an official government
order
the next day his lab was temporarily
suspended
for rectification in the official
chinese narrative
of the fight against kovid zhang's name
does not appear
i don't think it's clear right now
exactly how history is going to view
this pandemic
it might have been a case where it was
already too late by the time we realized
that this virus was spreading
but i think what we can say based on
what we know right now
it's clear that there were mistakes that
were made there were clear
delays and many people did suffer
the consequences
you